.
[ominous music]
- We can fix the machine
and save your wife.
We're so close to a solution.
- It's all James has and
it's part of a larger equation.
But if we can find the rest,
we'll get the answer.
- Sam says
it's a pretty bad concussion.
- Mom!
- Let's get her on the bus.
- I have a brain tumor
and you have a treatment.
- A cure.
During your intake,
you told my guards
you're a psychiatrist.
Do you think we could
arrange a time to chat?
- Those flowers.
- They're the ones
Aaron used to make you draw.
- Maybe he knew about
this place.
[snarling]
- No!
- Maybe there's a bigger
reason why we're here.
- Even when he's not here,
he finds his way
back into my head.
- I think Taamet's the killer.
I went to his cell and I saw
the same symbol up close.
- Why would you go to his cell?
- 'Cause I'm the one that
let Taamet go.
You accused Virgil
with no proof.
- Virgil spent time
with the Exiles.
I'm telling you, he's our guy.
[serene music]
♪
[rhino grunting and chewing]
[otherworldly thrumming]
[rhino snorts]
[rhino bellows]
[suspenseful music]
♪
- Morning.
- We brought you breakfast.
How you feeling?
- The concussion's still there.
My leg is better though.
I don't think I'll be leaving
the bus anytime today.
At least your dad
left me some flowers.
- Where'd he go?
- To see James.
- I can't believe Dad thinks
he can trust him.
- He's just trying to
keep Mom alive.
- Hey, guys, I know it's
dangerous down here.
But we have to face things
as they come.
And I just--
I wish your dad knew that James
wasn't the way to do that.
- Yes, exactly.
- If there's even a chance
that James can help Mom,
we need to look into it.
We have to do something.
Right?
- Yes, but for now, um...
why don't you give me
some water?
[sighs]
[soft tense music]
♪
- Hey.
What are you up to?
- Uh, I was actually, uh,
coming to give you
one of these.
But, uh, got distracted
by Virgil.
I know everyone thinks
Taamet killed Wyatt but
my gut's telling me Virgil
had something to do with it.
- I trust your gut.
- Thanks.
You know, you always make me
feel better about the world.
I've been--I've been
thinking about something.
Um, you know how
you been talking about
making a fresh start?
- Mm-hmm.
- Well, I was wondering,
maybe you'd, I don't know,
wanna move in with me?
[chuckles]
- That's sweet.
But I just don't think
now's a good time.
- OK, cool.
Yeah, no, it was just--
just a thought.
- I'll talk to you later, OK?
♪
- Hey.
- Virgil.
What are you doing up here?
- Here to relieve you.
- Uh, Judah's supposed to
relieve me,
and not for another two hours.
- Right.
Thought you could use a break.
- I promised Sam that
I'd watch the clearing
while the search party's gone.
Taamet could come back
and we need to be ready.
- Yeah, I get that.
It's just ever since
Lucas locked me up,
I've been getting these
weird looks from everybody,
like they don't trust me
or something.
I was hoping I could
come up here
and just show them
I'm on their side.
Come on, man.
At least let me cover for you
so you can get some breakfast,
yeah?
- All right. Fine.
I'll be right back.
[ominous music]
♪
- [whistles]
- Tell the others.
It's time.
[bird screeches]
[wind rushing softly]
[rustling]
[suspenseful music]
♪
- Hold it. Don't move.
Turn around slow, really slow.
♪
Levi?
- It's great seeing you, too.
[dramatic music]
♪
.
- Hey! Hey.
[chuckles softly]
- How's Eve and the kids?
- Yeah, they're safe.
What are you doing here?
What happened to your hair?
It's barely been a week.
Wha--
- Down here it's been a week.
It's been ten years for me
since I saw you in '88.
- What do you mean?
- I went down a sinkhole
in 1998.
- [clears throat]
'98?
- New sinkholes,
they just keep opening up.
So I assume your mission to
destroy the machine failed.
- Yeah, well,
we damaged it, but, um,
the portal's still open.
- You know, after we split,
I never stopped trying to
bring you guys home.
I joined with the DOD.
They got a team trying to
stop the sinkholes
and rescue everyone trapped
down here.
- So you're gonna
bring us all back?
- That's the plan.
- [chuckles]
I don't know what to say.
- Well, thank you is
a good start.
- OK. Thank you.
- [chuckles]
- You know, the truth is,
I'm working on the same thing
with James.
- James?
Like, your father, James?
- I know.
Last you heard of him,
he was dangerous,
but it's complicated.
He's working on a way
to fix the machine.
I'm on my way to talk to him
right now.
In fact, why--
why don't you see for yourself?
- OK.
Let's go see James.
- Yeah.
You know, it's brave,
what you did.
It's dangerous.
No certain way back.
- You did the same thing.
- It's different.
I did it for my family.
- You guys are my family.
[soft tense music]
♪
- Thank you.
- These are for you.
- Dr. Coleman,
how are you feeling?
- I know I've only had
one round of this,
but I feel better already.
- Excellent.
This is a tablet for
taking notes
during your therapy session
with James.
Though, if you don't mind,
I am curious about
a few things.
- Such as?
- Would you say there is
an ethical conflict,
considering your relationship
with his extended family?
- Well, as a professional,
I always put my patient's
interests first.
So, no.
No ethical conflict present.
- Even though you
stand to benefit
from his work to
fix the machine
and potentially send you home?
- No.
I'm getting married to
a member of the fort.
So my plan isn't to return,
but to stay here.
I'd also like to request
a legal pad, if that's OK?
For privacy.
- Of course.
Staying offline is smart.
Around here,
there are eyes everywhere.
[drawer shuts]
Have a good session.
[ominous music]
♪
- Someone came this way.
Could be Taamet.
Let's do a quick sweep.
Everyone spread out.
I'm glad you're out here
with me.
We need to do everything we can
to protect ourselves.
Particularly,
since it looks like
we're not getting out of here
any time soon.
- If I tell you something,
will you promise not to tell
anyone else about it?
- Well, I do know a thing or
two about
how to keep things classified.
Yes, I promise.
- OK.
Yesterday, Caroline and I found
some of Dr. Moore's research.
She said she had to
look into it first,
but it could mean that
fixing James's machine is
a real possibility.
- What?
- But she made me promise
not to tell anyone about it,
including Josh.
Dad, I had to lie to him.
- You did what you had to do.
Look, back when
I was doing missions,
there were plenty of times
your mom wanted to know
what I was up to,
but I couldn't tell her.
- Did she understand?
- She did.
- There's smoke
coming from that way.
[dark music]
- Could be Taamet.
Everyone stay close.
♪
- It's an Exile symbol.
- So where did they go?
♪
- What the hell was that for?
- For being an idiot.
You need to stop backing Dad
on this James stuff.
Maybe if you, me, and Mom were
on the same page,
he'd see he was being
an idiot too.
- He's not being an idiot, Iz.
We're onto something here.
And if it can help
with Mom's situation,
we'd be idiots not to
look into it.
- All you found was a key that
nobody has any idea
what it's for.
- Then how do you explain
Caroline?
- What about her?
- She disappeared this morning.
Didn't tell anyone
where she's going.
There is something more
going on here,
and we're gonna find out what,
whether you help us or not.
[suspenseful music]
[shouting]
- Josh. Josh, run.
Go, go, go!
- Come on!
- [shouting]
- Hurry!
- Ow! [grunts]
- Holy Mother of God.
- What?
- Oh, my God!
- [grunts]
- Get in the car.
- [panting]
- [grunts]
- Ah!
- Get off!
- Lock them all up.
- [straining]
- [grunts]
Get off me!
[grunting]
[indistinct shouting]
- What are they doing?
- [shouting]
[people screaming]
[indistinct shouting]
- Hey! Hey, why didn't you
warn us? Huh?
You were on the tower.
You could see them coming.
Why didn't you say anything?
- [grunts]
Get the hell away from me!
- Get in there!
- [grunts]
- What's going on out there?
[indistinct screaming]
[dark dramatic music]
♪
- The Exiles are back.
.
- What did you do?
- Nothing!
[grunts]
- You have the same look on
your face you had yesterday.
And I knew you were
lying then, too!
- You're wrong, man.
- Am I? Huh? Am I?
Then tell me why the bandanna
that was on your hand
is now hanging off the tower!
You signaled them.
- I did not!
- These are the same maniacs
you escaped from.
Why did you let them in here?
Huh?
- I didn't have a choice!
[breathing heavily]
He made me.
- What the hell do they have
on you?
- [breathing heavily]
[soft tense music]
♪
- Dad.
- No, no. Please.
Please, please, please! No!
[breathing rapidly]
No, no, no, no!
- It's OK, it's OK.
We're just here to help.
- I'm gonna cut you loose, OK?
- [panting]
- The Exiles are gone.
You're safe.
I'm Sam.
This is my daughter, Riley.
Can you tell us who you are?
- [panting]
Jane.
- The people that were here,
do you know where they went?
- No.
- Do you remember
how you got here?
- I fell down a sinkhole in
Los Angeles with my husband.
We got captured by these people
who made us work in a mine.
- Is your husband here, too?
- No.
They said they'd kill me
unless Virgil helped them.
- Your husband's name is
Virgil?
If Virgil's been working with
the Exiles
and they're not here...
Get the others. We need to get
back to the clearing now.
[suspenseful music]
- Where is it?
- Tear it apart.
- [screaming]
- Stay there.
- What are they looking for?
- I don't know.
But we gotta get to Mom.
- They will kill you.
- She's got no way to
defend herself.
- Hey, wait, wait.
- Everybody split up!
- I have an idea.
[grunts]
We're gonna use this to
save Mom.
- You, stay in there.
- Did you see
where Josh and Izzy went?
- No.
- Check here.
- Um, OK, stay here.
- Wait, hang on. Hang on!
Whatever we do next,
we have to think this through.
- No. No, no. This is my fault.
I need to fix this.
- What do you mean?
What are you talking about?
- Look, it's not worth getting
into in your condition.
- I disagree. Acting without
thinking things through is
exactly how I got in
this condition.
We need a plan.
- I just don't want
any more bad to come from
what I did.
- Keep searching!
Still haven't found it.
- Hey.
- What are they doing?
We have to get to the kids.
- Eve, whoa!
- Josh. Izzy?
- Eve?
Eve! No.
- We're not leaving
until we find it.
- OK, you're still breathing.
That's good.
[tense music]
♪
Hey! Uh, excuse me? Hello?
Hi. G'day, fellas.
Little awkward but I need to
get meds from my car.
- Go.
- Back where you were!
- Look, look, look,
I don't know if you've ever
seen someone have a full-blown
anxiety attack before,
but, uh, it is not pretty, OK?
We're talking flailing limbs,
verbal outbursts, hives.
Google it.
Uh, but hey, if that's
what you really want,
I can go back to the bus.
♪
- Thought I'd see you.
- Honestly, I was hoping
the opposite.
- What are you doing out here?
Not a good idea.
♪
[both grunting]
- [grunts]
- Oh!
- Take him.
♪
.
- Listen, I've been thinking,
and what you told me
doesn't add up.
- What doesn't?
- Why you came down here.
- What?
- Be straight with me.
There's something
you're not telling me.
- What, you're not happy
to see me?
- That's not it.
Come on.
- You're right.
But it's not what
you're thinking.
- What am I thinking?
- That I'm back for Eve.
- [sighs]
- Gavin, for me,
it's been over a decade.
What happened between her and I
is ancient history.
It's not why I'm back.
- OK.
So why are you back?
- One of the people on my team,
she was more than
just a colleague.
Her name was Marissa.
We fell in love, got married,
and I found peace.
- So what happened?
- She died.
- I'm sorry.
- For a while, I--
I didn't know what to do.
Then I realized,
I could honor her memory
by coming down here and
finishing what she started.
Gavin, that's why I'm here.
- I'm sorry, buddy.
- Thank you.
Someone's coming.
[tense music]
♪
- Sam.
- Levi.
- Man, it is good to see you.
- What the hell's
going on here?
- Levi has got
a lot to tell you.
- I want to hear everything
you two have to say.
But right now,
we have other problems.
We just found out that Virgil's
been working for Taamet.
The Exiles are on the way to
the clearing.
- We need to get there now.
[ominous music]
♪
- Tell me, Doctor,
how are you holding up?
- So far, so good.
But this meeting
isn't about me.
Please.
- Well, thank you for
taking me on as a patient.
I understand my reputation
precedes me.
Likely, you've been talking to
my son, or perhaps his wife.
I know she's not
my biggest fan.
- I like to reserve judgment
for myself.
- Good.
So shall we get started?
- All right.
What would you like to
talk about?
- Uh, well, I haven't slept
in a month,
and I'm starting to worry
it will impact my work.
- Insomnia can have
a variety of causes.
Three of the most common
are medication,
illness, or stress.
- I haven't been sick
in over a year.
I'm not on any medications that
would cause sleeplessness.
- Which leaves stress.
Given your position and
what you do in this building,
I imagine you encounter
quite a lot of it.
So what changed a month ago?
- Nothing.
- Can you describe
what happened during the day
before that
first sleepless night?
- I had some meetings,
read some reports.
- What about that night?
- Well, I remember something
woke me
in the middle of the night,
but I--
I went straight back to sleep.
- Something?
- It was--it was a dream.
- What kind of dream?
- About work.
Uh, we had
a shipment of evergreens
scheduled to be sent.
And in the dream,
I went down to the Bio Bay
and all the trees had lost
their needles.
And I know it
sounds ridiculous,
but they've taken years
to grow.
And I just--
I woke up in a cold sweat.
- It sounds like
a typical anxiety dream.
Stressful,
but nothing that would trigger
a month of insomnia.
You're sure there
wasn't more to it?
- [grunts]
My apologies, Doctor.
I have a meeting
I have to get to.
- But we just got started.
- Ah, I'm sorry.
We will continue
this session soon.
Thank you for your time.
- I get the Exiles forcing you
to spy on us.
But why why'd you kill Wyatt?
- I didn't want to.
Look, a few days ago,
Taamet told me to search
Caroline's bag,
and, uh--and I did.
And Wyatt, he saw me.
I just--I panicked, you know?
I just tried scaring him
with my knife.
I did not think he was gonna
fight back.
- What were they having you
look for?
Is that--is that what
they're looking for now?
- It's like some sort of--
some sort of book.
It's got a brown moleskin cover
and green binding.
- Why would the Exiles want
something like that?
- I don't know, man.
They didn't tell me.
I know they want it.
And I couldn't find it anywhere
so now they're looking.
Lucas, if they don't find
this thing,
I don't know what
they're gonna do next.
[tense music]
♪
- We're just gonna have to
help them.
♪
- I still don't see him.
- Lucas is going to be fine.
- What if the last thing
I said was that
I didn't want to move in
with him?
- Did you tell him why
you said no?
- About Aaron?
- Yeah.
- No.
Even with Lucas,
who I really like,
whenever I try to be open,
all of a sudden,
Aaron's in my head
and there's no getting rid
of him.
It's like with those
red flowers
that he used to draw
that we saw down here.
Everywhere I turn,
he seems to be there
and I don't know what to do.
- Get out here. Come on!
- No!
- Let go of her!
- Hey! Let them go.
♪
I have what you want.
Brown moleskin book with
a green binding, right?
♪
- Did he just say--
- Yeah.
- How do you know that?
- All you need to know is
I can take you to it.
- If you know about the book,
what's inside it?
You're lying.
- No, he's telling the truth.
But he only knows half of it.
The book you're talking about
has got
numbers and symbols in it.
- How do you know this?
- Because it belonged to
somebody I know.
His name was Aaron.
And I don't know why
he'd have something you want,
but I know he never let it go
'cause I buried him with it.
- Where is he buried?
- We can show you.
- You will go with
five of my men to the grave.
You will dig up the book
and bring it here.
But if you are not back
by sundown...
- [grunts]
- He dies.
.
[tense music]
- You sure
you're doing that right?
- Dad helped me learn Morse
code for a Girl Scout badge.
- That doesn't inspire
a lot of confidence.
- Mirror flashes can be seen
a hundred miles away.
I'm flashing it
towards the building.
And if Dad looks back,
he will see it.
- Hey. Check it out.
♪
- Come on, let's go.
- Keep moving.
- I have to change the message.
- Why?
- Because if Dad has
any chance of saving us,
he has to target
the small group first.
It's basic tactics.
- Girl Scouts are badass.
- [chuckles softly]
♪
- Whoa, hang on.
- It's like I taught Izzy.
It's her.
- What's she saying?
- Um...
A-T-T...
S-T.
Attack, Exiles, East.
- I think she's saying
there's a group moving east.
We should take them out,
then we can hit the clearing.
- Smart.
- No. No, no, no. We know what
the Exiles are capable of.
They have my family.
That's where we go first.
- Your kid's got eyes on a
situation that says different.
- Sam! My wife is injured
on that bus.
- Gavin, we know that you want
to protect your family,
but Izzy's sharp.
Think it through.
So what are we gonna do?
- Dr. Coleman.
- I asked to see you
before I leave.
- Of course.
How are you?
- Well...
nothing in this world
is guaranteed.
But according to your doctors,
my recovery is moving in
the right direction.
Just need to come back in a few
days for the next treatment.
Still, I wouldn't be
doing my job
if I left without following up
on your dream.
- I appreciate your tenacity,
but I haven't been able to
remember anything else.
- You know, sometimes
psychiatrists need to do
outside research
in order to better understand
the symbolism
within the dreams of
our patients.
So I took it upon myself to
ask around the building about
those evergreens,
see what they might signify
to a man like you.
But the thing is,
there hasn't been a shipment
of them all year,
which suggests you weren't
being entirely truthful.
In order for me to help you,
James,
you have to tell me
what's really going on.
- [chuckles wryly]
It wasn't a dream that woke me.
It was a nightmare...
About the day Isiah was taken.
- Tell me about it.
It could be the key to
solving your insomnia.
- I dreamed I went to go
and wake him up
and I found his bed empty.
And the moment I saw it,
I knew he was gone.
And I still searched.
I looked everywhere, even
though I knew it was hopeless.
And the dream, it was so real.
It felt like I'd lost him
all over again.
And it even--
it brought back, um--
- What did it bring back?
- When I lost him,
the emptiness,
it made me...
do something unthinkable.
[soft somber music]
♪
- You tried to harm yourself.
- I went to my gun case.
I unlocked a pistol...
put it to the side of my head,
and I pulled the trigger.
And it should have killed me,
but the gun's chamber was empty
because I'd taken out
all the bullets
to keep Isiah safe.
So even though Isiah was gone,
he still saved me.
And then the dream just
made it all come back.
- It's a terrible feeling.
In the light of day,
you must be able to see that
you have your son back.
- But I don't.
My son will never trust me.
And I don't know where to go
with that.
- What you're feeling is
normal
and we can work on it.
You can have
a relationship with Gavin
and still hold space for
the memory of Isiah.
♪
- I love imagining him here.
The Bio Bay was
his favorite place.
He, um--
he would color here every day.
Here--you know, here are
a few of his drawings.
[tablet chimes]
There.
♪
- Wait. Would you--
would you mind going back one?
- Huh?
- Yeah.
A blue moon.
- It's beautiful, isn't it?
- Yeah. It is.
[ominous music]
- [grunts]
- You OK?
- I just want this to be over.
[gasping]
- Hey, I can get the book.
- No, no.
No, I need to do this.
This book was so important
to him.
He never let us near it.
I'm not gonna be afraid
anymore.
[tense music]
♪
- Hand it over.
Now.
♪
[gunshots]
- Live or die, it's up to you.
♪
- We have to get to
the clearing.
Grab their weapons,
tie them up. Let's move.
.
[dramatic music]
- Time's almost up.
- [chuckles softly]
You know what?
Before I die,
I just have one thing to say.
As a cultural anthropologist,
I've had a unique opportunity
to study your group
from a number of different
ethnographic perspectives:
cognitive, political,
developmental, psychological,
even transpersonal.
And I have to say that
on every level,
you are all an epic fail.
♪
- [grunting]
- Ah!
- In the trees!
- Look out!
- Come on!
[indistinct shouting]
- Get him!
[grunting]
[gun cocks]
- On your knees! Now!
- [snarls]
- Taamet!
♪
[breathing heavily]
- You see him?
- No.
- Damn it.
- [grunts]
[both straining]
- Ah!
[blade rings]
- [grunts]
- No--
- [shouts]
- [grunts]
- [panting]
- [sucking breath]
[groans]
- [panting]
- [groaning]
[tense music]
♪
- I saw that James has
scheduled more time with you.
Things must have gone well.
- I think so.
- We're out of the building,
Doctor.
We can talk openly.
- Kiera...
what is Project Blue Moon?
- I don't know.
Project Blue Moon is
the first Lazarus operation
James has locked me out of.
- Blue Moon is a drawing
made by his son Isiah.
Does that mean anything to you?
- James has been talking about
what he wants to do
once the machine is fixed.
And now, I think he wants to
use it to start over.
- Losing Isiah is
James' biggest regret.
If he could have
anything he wanted,
I think he would go back
in time
and make sure that
never happened.
- He can't do this.
- I agree.
If he does, Isiah will never
leave his side.
He won't go to 1988,
won't meet Eve, have kids.
- This is about more than
just Gavin.
This is about you.
Once James starts over
with Isiah,
everything from that point
will change.
There'll be no
La Brea sinkhole.
You will never come to
this building
for cancer treatment, Ty.
You'll die.
♪
- [grunting]
- You guys all right?
- Yeah.
- [groaning weakly]
- Gavin, they were--
they were looking for this.
Why would the Exiles want this?
- Can I see?
Hang on.
Hold this.
Look.
James gave me this page of
Moore's research.
It fits.
- I don't understand, man.
- This must be Moore's journal,
his complete work.
It's our way home.
Hey.
Hey, Taamet.
- [grunting]
- Hey!
James sent me to find this.
- [groans]
- Did he send you to
get it, too?
- Not James.
Then who?
- Kiera.
[groans]
♪
- Come on. Let's get going.
- [sighs]
How you holding up?
- The man who took me had
a book from 10,000 B.C.
that might be the key to
getting us home, so...
- [clears throat]
It's a lot.
- Aaron...took us to La Brea
that day.
He parked the car and told us
to stay put.
It's like he knew
the sinkhole was coming,
like he wanted to be there.
It's just...
none of it--
none of it makes any sense.
[chuckles softly]
Guess if you thought
I was damaged goods before...
- What are you talking about?
Hey.
I--I think you're
the strongest person
I've ever met.
I wouldn't want you
any other way.
[soft music]
♪
- What are you doing?
- We are going to your car.
I'm moving in.
♪
- [inhales slowly]
[exhales]
- Hey, hey.
- [gasps]
- Hey, no, no, no, no, no.
Josh and Izzy are outside.
They're safe.
- OK.
- It's OK.
- Thank you.
- Yeah.
- [softly] Thank you.
- I'm sorry.
I know you didn't want me
to go today.
- No, it's all right. It's OK.
- It's not.
[softly] It's not.
But I did find something.
It's what we were looking for;
all of Dr. Moore's research.
With this,
we can fix the machine.
- This is amazing.
- Yeah.
[chuckles]
It's also what
the Exiles were looking for.
And Kiera sent them.
- Kiera?
- Mm-hmm.
I don't know if she was working
for James or against him,
or for some other reason
entirely,
but it was her.
Hey, look, I know we haven't
been on the same page
about this.
I want us to be.
I want us to figure this out
together.
- I do too.
- There's something else.
- What?
- Someone's here to see you.
[soft music]
♪
- Levi.
I can't believe it.
You're back.
Hey.
Wow. The gray suits you.
- Older and wiser.
- Mm.
- At least that's what
they say.
- What are you doing here?
- What I told Gavin
wasn't the truth.
- What do you mean?
- I told him that I had a plan
to bring everyone home,
but the truth is, I don't.
The reason I'm here is to do
the one thing that can set
everything right.
And I need your help to do it.
[music darkens]
I'm here to kill James.
♪
.
[dramatic music]
♪